=================================================================== 
1. DEFINITIONS 
1. No right is granted to create derivative works of or 
1.02 Lucent Public License Version 
1.02, reproduced below, Lucent Public License, Version 
2. GRANT OF RIGHTS 
2. The printer fonts identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/ghostscript/font 
2003, Lucent Technologies Inc. and others. All Rights Copyright (C) 
2(a) and 2(b) above, Agreement. Except as expressly stated in Sections 
2(b) above, Agreement. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 
2(b) shall terminate as of the date such rights granted under Section 
3. REQUIREMENTS 
3. The ghostscript program in the subdirectory /sys/src/cmd/gs is 
3C, to characterization of the changes and/or accordance with Section 
4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION 
5. NO WARRANTY 
6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY 
7. EXPORT CONTROL 
8. GENERAL 
A. Distributor may choose to distribute the Program in any form under 
a. in the case of Lucent Technologies Inc. ("LUCENT"), the Original 
a. it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; 
a) promptly In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: 
a. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby 
above, Agreement. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) 
ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S 
ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS PUBLIC THE 
accompanying this Agreement as released by LUCENT, including source 
accordance with Section 3C, to characterization of the changes and/or 
acquire that license before distributing the Program. to 
acting on such Program by such Contributor itself or anyone 
action arose. Each party waives more than one year after the cause of 
action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the 
action under this Agreement party to this Agreement will bring a legal 
actions brought by a third party claims, lawsuits and other legal 
acts against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the 
actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. relating to any 
added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution is 
added to the where such changes and/or additions to the Program were 
addition, after a new Agreement under which it was received. In 
addition, each Contributor must identify itself as the C. In 
addition, if Recipient of the date such litigation is filed. In 
addition of the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such 
additions and/or changes Also, each Contributor must agree that the 
additions as Contributions. 
additions to the Program; ii. 
additions to the Program were added to the where such changes and/or 
administration regulations (and the with the United States export 
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, EVEN IF 
affect the validity or enforceability of applicable law, it shall not 
against and indemnify every Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") 
against a Contributor with If Recipient institutes patent litigation 
against any entity (including a institutes patent litigation 
against the Contributors related to those performance defend claims 
against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts 
agree that the additions and/or changes Also, each Contributor must 
Agreement; a. it complies with the terms and conditions of this 
agreement form, a copy of this Agreement or Distributor's own license 
agreement: license 
Agreement. license set forth in this 
Agreement party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this 
AGREEMENT. PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS 
Agreement and any licenses However, Recipient's obligations under this 
Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of 
Agreement, and without further the remainder of the terms of this 
("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSE 
Agreement are iii. states that any provisions which differ from this 
Agreement are reserved. expressly granted under this 
Agreement as released by LUCENT, including source accompanying this 
Agreement, each Contributor hereby a. Subject to the terms of this 
Agreement, each Contributor hereby b. Subject to the terms of this 
Agreement. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, 
Agreement from time to time. Each new version of the Agreement will be 
Agreement, including all Contributors. 
Agreement, including but not limited to exercise of rights under this 
Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and This 
Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under If any provision of this 
Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to version of the 
AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS 
Agreement or Distributor's own license agreement form, a copy of this 
Agreement or under its own license agreement, provided that: this 
agreement, provided that: this Agreement or under its own license 
Agreement shall terminate as Contributor to such Recipient under this 
Agreement shall terminate if it All Recipient's rights under this 
agreement, such c. if distributed under Distributor's own license 
Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use rights under this 
AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS 
Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new 
Agreement, whether expressly, by of any Contributor under this 
Agreement will be Agreement from time to time. Each new version of the 
Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement party to this 
agrees that Recipient alone is responsible for compliance Recipient 
agrees to cease use rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient 
agrees to defend such Distributor ("Commercial Distributor") hereby 
Aladdin Free Public License, reproduced in the file covered by the 
alleged intellectual property infringement. relating to any actual or 
alleging that the Program cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) 
allows originator of its Contribution in a manner that reasonably 
alone and not by any other party. offered by that Contributor 
alone is responsible for compliance Recipient agrees that Recipient 
alone or when combined with the Program. 
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Distributor would have to 
also apply to the combination of the by a Contributor shall 
Also, each Contributor must agree that the additions and/or changes 
although each Contributor grants the c. Recipient understands that 
always be distributed subject to the version of the Contributions) may 
America. No the intellectual property laws of the United States of 
AN"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON 
(and the with the United States export administration regulations 
and/or accordance with Section 3C, to characterization of the changes 
and/or additions to the Program were added to the where such changes 
and/or changes Also, each Contributor must agree that the additions 
any. code, object code and documentation, if 
ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, 
ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF 
any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. relating to 
any, and such derivative works, in source code and Contributor, if 
any claims or Losses obligations in this section do not apply to 
any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the provided by 
any Contributor to pay claims and warranties, and if a court requires 
any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by of 
ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
any damages as a result, the Commercial Distributor must pay those 
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR 
any entity (including a institutes patent litigation against 
any. For to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if 
any form under A. Distributor may choose to distribute the Program in 
any, in source code and object code form. The patent license granted 
ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE 
any liability to Recipient for claims brought by Contributor disclaims 
any licenses However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and 
any losses, damages and costs (collectively"Losses") arising from 
any of the material terms or conditions of this fails to comply with 
any other combinations which include the Contribution, nor to to (i) 
any other countries). export control laws and regulation of 
any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights 
any other entity. Each patent or other intellectual property rights of 
any other entity that has Contributed a "Contributor" means LUCENT and 
any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For to secure 
any other party. offered by that Contributor alone and not by 
any part "Program" means the Original Program and Contributions or 
any part thereof. modifications to the Program, or 
any patent licenses granted by that counterclaim in a lawsuit), then 
any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under If 
any provisions which differ from this Agreement are iii. states that 
any related settlement Commercial Distributor in, the defense and 
any resulting litigation. its rights to a jury trial in 
ANY RIGHTS GRANTED DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF 
any such negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in 
ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON 
any, to grant the copyright copyright rights in its Contribution, if 
ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). 
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
anyone acting on such Program by such Contributor itself or 
anyone who receives the Program under this "Recipient" means 
applicable the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with 
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of 
applicable to software (including a cross-claim or respect to a patent 
apply Patents. The patent license granted by a Contributor shall not 
apply to any claims or Losses obligations in this section do not 
apply to the combination of the by a Contributor shall also 
appropriateness of using and responsible for determining the 
arising from any losses, damages and costs (collectively"Losses") 
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
arose. Each party waives more than one year after the cause of action 
associated with its distributing the Program and assumes all risks 
assumes all risks associated with its distributing the Program and 
assumes sole responsibility granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby 
assurances are licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no 
at its own expense. claim 
at the time the Contribution of that Contributor and the Program if, 
aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's time after becoming 
b) notify the Commercial Distributor in writing of such claim, and 
B. Each Distributor must include the following in a conspicuous 
b. if the Program is distributed in source code or other tangible 
b. in the case of each Contributor, 
b. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby 
based on infringement of intellectual property rights any other entity 
BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" 
becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's time after 
before distributing the Program. to acquire that license 
behalf, and the Contributor explicitly consents, in Contributor's 
behalf of all Contributors all liability ii. effectively excludes on 
behalf of all Contributors all warranties i. effectively disclaims on 
below, Lucent Public License, Version 1.02, reproduced 
B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These directories contain material copyrights by 
bring a legal action under this Agreement party to this Agreement will 
brought by Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims 
brought by a third party claims, lawsuits and other legal actions 
business partners and the responsibilities with respect to end users, 
but not limited to exercise of rights under this Agreement, including 
(C) 2003, Lucent Technologies Inc. and others. All Rights Copyright 
c. if distributed under Distributor's own license agreement, such 
C. In addition, each Contributor must identify itself as the 
c. Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the 
case of each Contributor, b. in the 
case of Lucent Technologies Inc. ("LUCENT"), the Original a. in the 
cause of action arose. Each party waives more than one year after the 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER 
caused by the acts against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent 
causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Contribution 
cease use rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to 
certain Commercial distributors of software may accept 
changes Also, each Contributor must agree that the additions and/or 
changes and/or accordance with Section 3C, to characterization of the 
changes and/or additions to the Program were added to the where such 
changes to the Program, and i. 
characterization of the changes and/or accordance with Section 3C, to 
choose to distribute the Program in any form under A. Distributor may 
claim, and b) notify the Commercial Distributor in writing of such 
claim at its own expense. 
claims against the Contributors related to those performance defend 
claims and warranties, and if a court requires any Contributor to pay 
claims and warranties are such Commercial Distributor's responsibility 
claims brought by Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for 
claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party 
claims licensable by a Contributor "Licensed Patents" mean patent 
claims or Losses obligations in this section do not apply to any 
claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance 
code and Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source 
code and documentation, if any. code, object 
code and object code form. The patent license granted any, in source 
code form. object 
code form. The patent license granted any, in source code and object 
code, object code and documentation, if any. 
code or other tangible b. if the Program is distributed in source 
(collectively"Losses") arising from any losses, damages and costs 
combination of the by a Contributor shall also apply to the 
combination to be covered by the Licensed Contribution causes such 
combinations of the Program with other software or itself (excluding 
combinations which include the Contribution, nor to to (i) any other 
combined with the Program. alone or when 
commercial For example, a Distributor might include the Program in a 
Commercial product offering, Product X. That Distributor is then a 
COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION 4. 
("Commercial Distributor") hereby agrees to defend such Distributor 
Commercial Distributor in connection with its or omissions of such 
Commercial Distributor in, the defense and any related settlement 
Commercial Distributor in writing of such claim, and b) notify the 
Commercial Distributor must pay those any damages as a result, the 
Commercial Distributor then makes performance Distributor. If that 
Commercial Distributor to control, and cooperate with the allow the 
Commercial Distributor would have to alone. Under this section, the 
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain 
Commercial Distributor's responsibility claims and warranties are such 
commercial product offering, Distributor includes the Program in a 
commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not 
commercial product offering. The distribution of the Program in a 
commercial use like. While this license is intended to facilitate the 
compliance Recipient agrees that Recipient alone is responsible for 
compliance with applicable the risks and costs of program errors, 
complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; a. it 
comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this fails to 
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or and 
CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR 
conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose; 
conditions of this fails to comply with any of the material terms or 
conditions of this Agreement; a. it complies with the terms and 
conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or 
CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY WARRANTIES OR 
connection with its or omissions of such Commercial Distributor in 
consents, in Contributor's behalf, and the Contributor explicitly 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
consequential damages, such as lost profits; and 
conspicuous B. Each Distributor must include the following in a 
CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. PROGRAM 
contain material copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These directories 
continue and granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
contributed, are intended to be a Contribution. Once a Contribution is 
Contributed a "Contributor" means LUCENT and any other entity that has 
Contribution. subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the 
Contribution which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its 
Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed 
Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright copyright rights in its 
Contribution in a manner that reasonably allows originator of its 
Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the 
Contribution is contributed, are intended to be a Contribution. Once a 
"Contribution" means: 
Contribution, nor to to (i) any other combinations which include the 
Contribution of such publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the 
Contribution of such Contributor, if import and otherwise transfer the 
Contribution of that Contributor and the Program if, at the time the 
Contribution. Once a Contribution is contributed, are intended to be a 
Contribution to the Program. 
Contributions. additions as 
Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the 
Contributions of other Contributors. No hardware per se is (ii) 
Contributions or any part "Program" means the Original Program and 
Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are licenses to its 
Contributions) under the new distribute the Program (including its 
Contributor, b. in the case of each 
Contributor "Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a 
Contributor") against and indemnify every Contributor ("Indemnified 
Contributor alone and not by any other party. offered by that 
Contributor and the Program if, at the time the Contribution of that 
Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by 
Contributor explicitly consents, in Contributor's behalf, and the 
Contributor grants the c. Recipient understands that although each 
Contributor hereby a. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each 
Contributor hereby b. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each 
Contributor, if import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such 
Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and 
Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against and indemnify every 
Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Program by such 
Contributor may elect to version of the Agreement is published, 
Contributor may participate in any such negotiations. The Indemnified 
"Contributor" means LUCENT and any other entity that has Contributed a 
Contributor must: a) promptly In order to qualify, an Indemnified 
Contributor must agree that the additions and/or changes Also, each 
Contributor must identify itself as the C. In addition, each 
Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient d. Each 
Contributor shall also apply to the combination of the by a 
Contributor shall not apply Patents. The patent license granted by a 
Contributor, such addition of the Contribution is added by the 
Contributor that the Program does not infringe the provided by any 
Contributor to pay claims and warranties, and if a court requires any 
Contributor to such Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as 
Contributor to the extent caused by the acts against the Indemnified 
Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by of any 
Contributor with If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a 
Contributors. Agreement, including all 
Contributors all liability ii. effectively excludes on behalf of all 
Contributors all warranties i. effectively disclaims on behalf of all 
Contributor's behalf, and the Contributor explicitly consents, in 
Contributors. No hardware per se is (ii) Contributions of other 
Contributors related to those performance defend claims against the 
CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY 
Contributors. Therefore, if a create potential liability for 
CONTROL 7. EXPORT 
control, and cooperate with the allow the Commercial Distributor to 
control laws and regulation of any other countries). export 
cooperate with the allow the Commercial Distributor to control, and 
copy of the Program; and is included with each 
copy of this Agreement or Distributor's own license agreement form, a 
COPYING, COPYRIGHT, or LICENSE files. 
copyright copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the 
copyright grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free 
Copyright (C) 2003, Lucent Technologies Inc. and others. All Rights 
COPYRIGHT, or LICENSE files. COPYING, 
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright 
copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These directories contain material 
costs (collectively"Losses") arising from any losses, damages and 
costs of program errors, compliance with applicable the risks and 
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program cross-claim or 
counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that 
countries). export control laws and regulation of any other 
court requires any Contributor to pay claims and warranties, and if a 
covered by the Aladdin Free Public License, reproduced in the file 
covered by the Licensed Contribution causes such combination to be 
create derivative works of or 1. No right is granted to 
create potential liability for Contributors. Therefore, if a 
cross-claim or respect to a patent applicable to software (including a 
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program 
cure such failure in a reasonable period of Agreement and does not 
d. Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient 
damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and laws, 
damages. 
DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
damages and costs (collectively"Losses") arising from any losses, 
damages as a result, the Commercial Distributor must pay those any 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and for 
damages, such as lost profits; and consequential 
data, programs or equipment, and laws, damage to or loss of 
date such rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the 
date such litigation is filed. In addition, if Recipient of the 
defend such Distributor ("Commercial Distributor") hereby agrees to 
defend claims against the Contributors related to those performance 
defense and any related settlement Commercial Distributor in, the 
DEFINITIONS 1. 
Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans Italic, Lucida Sans 
derivative works, in source code and Contributor, if any, and such 
derivative works of or 1. No right is granted to create 
derivative works of, publicly display, license to reproduce, prepare 
determining the appropriateness of using and responsible for 
differ from this Agreement are iii. states that any provisions which 
DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY 
direct, indirect, special, incidental and for damages, including 
directories contain material copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These 
DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY 6. 
disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by Contributor 
disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties i. effectively 
display, license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly 
distinguishing version number. The Program (including given a 
distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such publicly perform, 
distribute the Program in any form under A. Distributor may choose to 
distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new 
distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility Recipient to 
distributed in source code or other tangible b. if the Program is 
distributed subject to the version of the Contributions) may always be 
distributed under Distributor's own license agreement, such c. if 
distributes the Program, "Distributor" means a Recipient that 
distributing the Program. to acquire that license before 
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its 
DISTRIBUTION 4. COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR 
distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. and 
distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The 
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED 
Distributor ("Commercial Distributor") hereby agrees to defend such 
Distributor") hereby agrees to defend such Distributor ("Commercial 
Distributor. If that Commercial Distributor then makes performance 
Distributor in connection with its or omissions of such Commercial 
Distributor in, the defense and any related settlement Commercial 
Distributor in writing of such claim, and b) notify the Commercial 
Distributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, 
Distributor is then a Commercial product offering, Product X. That 
Distributor may choose to distribute the Program in any form under A. 
"Distributor" means a Recipient that distributes the Program, 
Distributor might include the Program in a commercial For example, a 
Distributor must include the following in a conspicuous B. Each 
Distributor must pay those any damages as a result, the Commercial 
Distributor then makes performance Distributor. If that Commercial 
Distributor to control, and cooperate with the allow the Commercial 
Distributor who includes the Program in a of the Program, the 
Distributor would have to alone. Under this section, the Commercial 
distributors of software may accept certain Commercial 
Distributor's own license agreement form, a copy of this Agreement or 
Distributor's own license agreement, such c. if distributed under 
Distributor's responsibility claims and warranties are such Commercial 
documentation, if any. code, object code and 
does not commercial product offering should do so in a manner which 
does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of Agreement and 
does not infringe the provided by any Contributor that the Program 
Each patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. 
each Contributor, b. in the case of 
each Contributor grants the c. Recipient understands that although 
each Contributor hereby a. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, 
each Contributor hereby b. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, 
each Contributor must agree that the additions and/or changes Also, 
each Contributor must identify itself as the C. In addition, 
Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient d. 
each copy of the Program; and is included with 
Each Distributor must include the following in a conspicuous B. 
Each new version of the Agreement will be Agreement from time to time. 
Each party waives more than one year after the cause of action arose. 
each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility granted hereunder, 
Each Recipient is solely OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties i. 
effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability ii. 
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY KIND, 
elect to version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may 
end users, business partners and the responsibilities with respect to 
enforceability of applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or 
enforceable. minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and 
entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights any other 
entity. Each patent or other intellectual property rights of any other 
entity (including a institutes patent litigation against any 
entity that has Contributed a "Contributor" means LUCENT and any other 
equipment, and laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or 
errors, compliance with applicable the risks and costs of program 
estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not implication, 
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, 
every Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against and indemnify 
example, a Distributor might include the Program in a commercial For 
example, if a third party patent license is required to allow 
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR 
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS 
Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Agreement. 
exceptions: with the following notable 
exceptions are marked in the file tree with Other, less notable 
excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability ii. effectively 
(excluding combinations of the Program with other software or itself 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE 
exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to 
exercising the rights and licenses or otherwise. As a condition to 
expense. claim at its own 
explicitly consents, in Contributor's behalf, and the Contributor 
export administration regulations (and the with the United States 
EXPORT CONTROL 7. 
export control laws and regulation of any other countries). 
express and implied, including warranties or and conditions, 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY KIND, EITHER 
expressly, by of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether 
expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved. 
EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR EXCEPT AS 
EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS EXCEPT AS 
expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Agreement. Except as 
extent caused by the acts against the Indemnified Contributor to the 
extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. minimum 
facilitate the commercial use like. While this license is intended to 
fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this 
failure in a reasonable period of Agreement and does not cure such 
file covered by the Aladdin Free Public License, reproduced in the 
file /LICENSE.gpl. are subject to the GNU GPL, reproduced in the 
file tree with Other, less notable exceptions are marked in the 
filed. litigation is 
filed. In addition, if Recipient of the date such litigation is 
files. COPYING, COPYRIGHT, or LICENSE 
fitness for a particular purpose; conditions of merchantability and 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely OR 
following in a conspicuous B. Each Distributor must include the 
following notable exceptions: with the 
fonts identified in subdirectory the screen imprinter 
fonts identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/ghostscript/font 2. The printer 
fonts (Lucida Sans Unicode, Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and printer 
form. object code 
form, a copy of this Agreement or Distributor's own license agreement 
form. The patent license granted any, in source code and object code 
form under A. Distributor may choose to distribute the Program in any 
forth herein, no assurances are licenses to its Contributions set 
forth in this Agreement. license set 
FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET 
FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET 
Free Public License, reproduced in the file covered by the Aladdin 
further the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without 
ghostscript program in the subdirectory /sys/src/cmd/gs is 3. The 
given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including 
GNU GPL, reproduced in the file /LICENSE.gpl. are subject to the 
governed by the laws of the State of New York and This Agreement is 
GPL, reproduced in the file /LICENSE.gpl. are subject to the GNU 
GRANT OF RIGHTS 2. 
grant the copyright copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to 
granted any, in source code and object code form. The patent license 
GRANTED DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS 
granted by a Contributor shall not apply Patents. The patent license 
granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and 
granted by that counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent licenses 
granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility 
granted to create derivative works of or 1. No right is 
granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such rights 
granted under this Agreement are reserved. expressly 
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright 
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent 
grants the c. Recipient understands that although each Contributor 
hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's 
hardware per se is (ii) Contributions of other Contributors. No 
has Contributed a "Contributor" means LUCENT and any other entity that 
has sufficient d. Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it 
has the right to modify this version. No one other than LUCENT 
HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL 
have to alone. Under this section, the Commercial Distributor would 
hereby a. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor 
hereby b. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor 
hereby agrees to defend such Distributor ("Commercial Distributor") 
hereby assumes sole responsibility granted hereunder, each Recipient 
herein, no assurances are licenses to its Contributions set forth 
hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the action by the parties 
hereunder. licensed 
hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility granted 
HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), 
However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses 
(i) any other combinations which include the Contribution, nor to to 
i. changes to the Program, and 
i. effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties 
identified in subdirectory the screen imprinter fonts 
identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/ghostscript/font 2. The printer fonts 
identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/postscript/font. Typewriter83), 
identify itself as the C. In addition, each Contributor must 
identify the originator of the Contribution. subsequent Recipients to 
if import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, 
if a create potential liability for Contributors. Therefore, 
if a court requires any Contributor to pay claims and warranties, and 
if a third party patent license is required to allow example, 
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, EVEN 
If all Recipient's time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. 
if any. code, object code and documentation, 
if any, and such derivative works, in source code and Contributor, 
if any. For to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, 
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under 
if any, to grant the copyright copyright rights in its Contribution, 
if, at the time the Contribution of that Contributor and the Program 
if distributed under Distributor's own license agreement, such c. 
if it All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate 
if Recipient of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, 
If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with 
If that Commercial Distributor then makes performance Distributor. 
if the Program is distributed in source code or other tangible b. 
ii. additions to the Program; 
(ii) Contributions of other Contributors. No hardware per se is 
ii. effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability 
iii. states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are 
implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not 
implied, including warranties or and conditions, express and 
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR 
implied warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and 
import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if 
imprinter fonts identified in subdirectory the screen 
in, the defense and any related settlement Commercial Distributor 
Inc. These directories contain material copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y 
Inc. and others. All Rights Copyright (C) 2003, Lucent Technologies 
Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These directories contain material copyrights by B&H 
Inc. ("LUCENT"), the Original a. in the case of Lucent Technologies 
incidental and for damages, including direct, indirect, special, 
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING 
include the Contribution, nor to to (i) any other combinations which 
include the following in a conspicuous B. Each Distributor must 
include the Program in a commercial For example, a Distributor might 
included with each copy of the Program; and is 
includes the Program in a of the Program, the Distributor who 
includes the Program in a commercial product offering, Distributor 
(including given a distinguishing version number. The Program 
(INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES 
(INCLUDING LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT 
(including a institutes patent litigation against any entity 
(including a cross-claim or respect to a patent applicable to software 
including all Contributors. Agreement, 
including but not limited to exercise of rights under this Agreement, 
including direct, indirect, special, incidental and for damages, 
(including its Contributions) under the new distribute the Program 
(including revisions) of this LUCENT may publish new versions 
including source accompanying this Agreement as released by LUCENT, 
including warranties or and conditions, express and implied, 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
("Indemnified Contributor") against and indemnify every Contributor 
Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such negotiations. The 
Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly In order to qualify, an 
Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts against the 
indemnify every Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against and 
INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, 
indirect, special, incidental and for damages, including direct, 
infringe the provided by any Contributor that the Program does not 
infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution which are necessarily 
infringement. relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property 
infringement of intellectual property rights any other entity based on 
infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's hardware) 
institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with If Recipient 
institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a 
intellectual property Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the 
intellectual property infringement. relating to any actual or alleged 
intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No the 
intellectual property rights any other entity based on infringement of 
intellectual property rights needed, if any. For to secure any other 
intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each patent or other 
intended to be a Contribution. Once a Contribution is contributed, are 
intended to facilitate the commercial use like. While this license is 
interruption of operations. unavailability or 
invalid or unenforceable under If any provision of this Agreement is 
IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS 
Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans 
its distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with 
its or omissions of such Commercial Distributor in connection with 
its Contribution which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of 
its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright copyright rights in 
its Contribution in a manner that reasonably allows originator of 
its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are licenses to 
its Contributions) under the new distribute the Program (including 
its knowledge it has sufficient d. Each Contributor represents that to 
its own expense. claim at 
its own license agreement, provided that: this Agreement or under 
its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation. 
itself as the C. In addition, each Contributor must identify 
itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or 
itself or anyone acting on such Program by such Contributor 
jury trial in any resulting litigation. its rights to a 
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of applicable 
laws and regulation of any other countries). export control 
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and 
laws of the State of New York and This Agreement is governed by the 
laws of the United States of America. No the intellectual property 
lawsuit) alleging that the Program cross-claim or counterclaim in a 
lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that counterclaim in a 
lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party claims, 
legal action under this Agreement party to this Agreement will bring a 
legal actions brought by a third party claims, lawsuits and other 
less notable exceptions are marked in the file tree with Other, 
LIABILITY 6. DISCLAIMER OF 
liability ii. effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all 
LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY 
liability for Contributors. Therefore, if a create potential 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
liability to Recipient for claims brought by Contributor disclaims any 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
/lib/font/bit/lucida and printer fonts (Lucida Sans Unicode, Lucida 
licensable by a Contributor "Licensed Patents" mean patent claims 
license agreement: 
license agreement form, a copy of this Agreement or Distributor's own 
LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE 
license agreement, provided that: this Agreement or under its own 
license agreement, such c. if distributed under Distributor's own 
license before distributing the Program. to acquire that 
LICENSE files. COPYING, COPYRIGHT, or 
license granted any, in source code and object code form. The patent 
license granted by a Contributor shall not apply Patents. The patent 
license is intended to facilitate the commercial use like. While this 
license is required to allow example, if a third party patent 
License, reproduced in the file covered by the Aladdin Free Public 
license set forth in this Agreement. 
license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, 
license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, 
License Version 1.02 Lucent Public 
License, Version 1.02, reproduced below, Lucent Public 
/LICENSE.afpl. 
Licensed Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the 
licensed hereunder. 
"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor 
Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, license under 
/LICENSE.gpl. are subject to the GNU GPL, reproduced in the file 
licenses However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any 
licenses or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and 
licenses granted by that counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent 
licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are 
licenses to the intellectual property Recipient receives no rights or 
like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use 
LIMITATION, ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT 
LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT 
limited to exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but not 
litigation. its rights to a jury trial in any resulting 
litigation against a Contributor with If Recipient institutes patent 
litigation against any entity (including a institutes patent 
litigation is filed. 
litigation is filed. In addition, if Recipient of the date such 
location in the Program: 
loss of data, programs or equipment, and laws, damage to or 
Losses obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or 
losses, damages and costs (collectively"Losses") arising from any 
lost profits; and consequential damages, such as 
LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION 
LUCENT and any other entity that has Contributed a "Contributor" means 
LUCENT has the right to modify this version. No one other than 
LUCENT, including source accompanying this Agreement as released by 
LUCENT may publish new versions (including revisions) of this 
Lucent Public License Version 1.02 
Lucent Public License, Version 1.02, reproduced below, 
Lucent Technologies Inc. and others. All Rights Copyright (C) 2003, 
Lucent Technologies Inc. ("LUCENT"), the Original a. in the case of 
("LUCENT"), the Original a. in the case of Lucent Technologies Inc. 
Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and printer fonts (Lucida Sans Unicode, 
Lucida Sans Sans Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, 
Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans Italic, 
(Lucida Sans Unicode, Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and printer fonts 
Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, 
make such provision valid and enforceable. minimum extent necessary to 
make, use, sell, offer to sell, license under Licensed Patents to 
makes performance Distributor. If that Commercial Distributor then 
manner that reasonably allows originator of its Contribution in a 
manner which does not commercial product offering should do so in a 
marked in the file tree with Other, less notable exceptions are 
material copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. These directories contain 
material terms or conditions of this fails to comply with any of the 
may accept certain Commercial distributors of software 
may always be distributed subject to the version of the Contributions) 
may choose to distribute the Program in any form under A. Distributor 
may elect to version of the Agreement is published, Contributor 
may not thereafter be revoked. it 
may participate in any such negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor 
may publish new versions (including revisions) of this LUCENT 
mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor "Licensed Patents" 
means: "Contribution" 
means a Recipient that distributes the Program, "Distributor" 
means anyone who receives the Program under this "Recipient" 
means LUCENT and any other entity that has Contributed a "Contributor" 
means the Original Program and Contributions or any part "Program" 
means the original version of the software "Original Program" 
MERCHANTABILITY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, 
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose; conditions of 
might include the Program in a commercial For example, a Distributor 
minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. 
modifications to the Program, or any part thereof. 
modify this version. No one other than LUCENT has the right to 
more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives 
must: a) promptly In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor 
must agree that the additions and/or changes Also, each Contributor 
must identify itself as the C. In addition, each Contributor 
must include the following in a conspicuous B. Each Distributor 
must pay those any damages as a result, the Commercial Distributor 
necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution which are 
necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. minimum extent 
needed, if any. For to secure any other intellectual property rights 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR 
negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such 
NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, 
new Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a 
new distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the 
new version of the Agreement will be Agreement from time to time. Each 
new versions (including revisions) of this LUCENT may publish 
New York and This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of 
No the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. 
no assurances are licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, 
No hardware per se is (ii) Contributions of other Contributors. 
No one other than LUCENT has the right to modify this version. 
No right is granted to create derivative works of or 1. 
no rights or licenses to the intellectual property Recipient receives 
NO WARRANTY 5. 
noncompliance. If all Recipient's time after becoming aware of such 
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright grants Recipient a 
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent grants Recipient a 
non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of title and 
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, 
NOR EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT 
nor to to (i) any other combinations which include the Contribution, 
not commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does 
not implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program 
not affect the validity or enforceability of applicable law, it shall 
not apply Patents. The patent license granted by a Contributor shall 
not apply to any claims or Losses obligations in this section do 
not by any other party. offered by that Contributor alone and 
not cure such failure in a reasonable period of Agreement and does 
not infringe the provided by any Contributor that the Program does 
not limited to exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but 
not thereafter be revoked. it may 
notable exceptions: with the following 
notable exceptions are marked in the file tree with Other, less 
notify the Commercial Distributor in writing of such claim, and b) 
number. The Program (including given a distinguishing version 
object code and documentation, if any. code, 
object code form. 
object code form. The patent license granted any, in source code and 
obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses 
obligations under this Agreement and any licenses However, Recipient's 
of, publicly display, license to reproduce, prepare derivative works 
offer to sell, license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, 
offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party. 
offering, Distributor includes the Program in a commercial product 
offering, Product X. That Distributor is then a Commercial product 
offering should do so in a manner which does not commercial product 
offering. The distribution of the Program in a commercial product 
offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims, or 
omissions of such Commercial Distributor in connection with its or 
Once a Contribution is contributed, are intended to be a Contribution. 
Operating System) to redistribute (other than with the Plan 9 
operations. unavailability or interruption of 
order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly In 
Original a. in the case of Lucent Technologies Inc. ("LUCENT"), the 
Original Program and Contributions or any part "Program" means the 
"Original Program" means the original version of the software 
original version of the software "Original Program" means the 
originator of its Contribution in a manner that reasonably allows 
originator of the Contribution. subsequent Recipients to identify the 
Other, less notable exceptions are marked in the file tree with 
(other than with the Plan 9 Operating System) to redistribute 
others. All Rights Copyright (C) 2003, Lucent Technologies Inc. and 
otherwise. All rights in the Program not implication, estoppel or 
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR NEGLIGENCE OR 
otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses or 
otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if import and 
own expense. claim at its 
own license agreement form, a copy of this Agreement or Distributor's 
own license agreement, provided that: this Agreement or under its 
own license agreement, such c. if distributed under Distributor's 
participate in any such negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may 
particular purpose; conditions of merchantability and fitness for a 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely OR FITNESS FOR A 
parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the action by the 
partners and the responsibilities with respect to end users, business 
party claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third 
party. offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other 
party patent license is required to allow example, if a third 
party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement 
party waives more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each 
patent grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free 
patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or respect to a 
patent claims licensable by a Contributor "Licensed Patents" mean 
patent license granted any, in source code and object code form. The 
patent license granted by a Contributor shall not apply Patents. The 
patent license is required to allow example, if a third party 
patent licenses granted by that counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any 
patent litigation against a Contributor with If Recipient institutes 
patent litigation against any entity (including a institutes 
patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each 
Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor "Licensed 
Patents. The patent license granted by a Contributor shall not apply 
patent(s), then such Recipient's hardware) infringes such Recipient's 
Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, license under Licensed 
pay claims and warranties, and if a court requires any Contributor to 
pay those any damages as a result, the Commercial Distributor must 
per se is (ii) Contributions of other Contributors. No hardware 
perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such publicly 
performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those 
performance defend claims against the Contributors related to those 
performance Distributor. If that Commercial Distributor then makes 
period of Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable 
Plan 9 Operating System) to redistribute (other than with the 
Plan 9 software is provided under the terms of the The 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
potential liability for Contributors. Therefore, if a create 
practicable. and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably 
printer fonts identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/ghostscript/font 2. The 
printer fonts (Lucida Sans Unicode, Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and 
profits; and consequential damages, such as lost 
PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST 
Program. alone or when combined with the 
Program. Contribution to the 
Program cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the 
Program, "Distributor" means a Recipient that distributes the 
Program; ii. additions to the 
Program: location in the 
Program. to acquire that license before distributing the 
Program, and 
Program, and i. changes to the 
Program; and is included with each copy of the 
Program and assumes all risks associated with its distributing the 
Program and Contributions or any part "Program" means the Original 
Program as soon as reasonably practicable. and distribution of the 
Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such 
PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. 
Program does not infringe the provided by any Contributor that the 
program errors, compliance with applicable the risks and costs of 
Program if, at the time the Contribution of that Contributor and the 
Program in a of the Program, the Distributor who includes the 
Program in a commercial For example, a Distributor might include the 
Program in a commercial product offering, Distributor includes the 
Program in a commercial product offering. The distribution of the 
Program in any form under A. Distributor may choose to distribute the 
program in the subdirectory /sys/src/cmd/gs is 3. The ghostscript 
Program (including given a distinguishing version number. The 
Program (including its Contributions) under the new distribute the 
PROGRAM IS EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE 
Program is distributed in source code or other tangible b. if the 
PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS PUBLIC THE ACCOMPANYING 
Program, it is Recipient's responsibility Recipient to distribute the 
"Program" means the Original Program and Contributions or any part 
Program" means the original version of the software "Original 
Program not implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the 
Program, or any part thereof. modifications to the 
PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED DISTRIBUTION OF THE 
Program shall continue and granted by Recipient relating to the 
Program, the Distributor who includes the Program in a of the 
Program under this "Recipient" means anyone who receives the 
Program were added to the where such changes and/or additions to the 
Program with other software or itself (excluding combinations of the 
programs or equipment, and laws, damage to or loss of data, 
promptly In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) 
property Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual 
property infringement. relating to any actual or alleged intellectual 
property laws of the United States of America. No the intellectual 
property rights any other entity based on infringement of intellectual 
property rights needed, if any. For to secure any other intellectual 
property rights of any other entity. Each patent or other intellectual 
provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the 
PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY 
provided that: this Agreement or under its own license agreement, 
provided under the terms of the The Plan 9 software is 
PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS PUBLIC THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS 
provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under If any 
provision shall be reformed to the action by the parties hereto, such 
provision valid and enforceable. minimum extent necessary to make such 
provisions which differ from this Agreement are iii. states that any 
PUBLIC THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS 
Public License, reproduced in the file covered by the Aladdin Free 
Public License Version 1.02 Lucent 
Public License, Version 1.02, reproduced below, Lucent 
publicly display, license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, 
publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such 
publish new versions (including revisions) of this LUCENT may 
published, Contributor may elect to version of the Agreement is 
purpose; conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular 
PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly In order to 
reasonable period of Agreement and does not cure such failure in a 
reasonably allows originator of its Contribution in a manner that 
reasonably practicable. and distribution of the Program as soon as 
received. In addition, after a new Agreement under which it was 
receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property Recipient 
receives the Program under this "Recipient" means anyone who 
Recipient of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, if 
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright grants 
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent grants 
Recipient agrees that Recipient alone is responsible for compliance 
Recipient agrees to cease use rights under this Agreement terminate, 
Recipient alone is responsible for compliance Recipient agrees that 
Recipient for claims brought by Contributor disclaims any liability to 
Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility granted hereunder, each 
Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with If 
Recipient is solely OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each 
"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this 
RECIPIENT NOR EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER 
Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property 
Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and granted by 
Recipient that distributes the Program, "Distributor" means a 
Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility 
Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as Contributor to such 
Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the c. 
Recipient's hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such 
Recipient's time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all 
RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. PROGRAM CONSTITUTES 
Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses However, 
Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's hardware) infringes such 
Recipient's responsibility Recipient to distribute the Program, it is 
Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it All 
Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution. subsequent 
redistribute (other than with the Plan 9 Operating System) to 
reformed to the action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be 
regulation of any other countries). export control laws and 
regulations (and the with the United States export administration 
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. 
relating to the Program shall continue and granted by Recipient 
released by LUCENT, including source accompanying this Agreement as 
remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further the 
represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient d. Each Contributor 
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, license to 
reproduced below, Lucent Public License, Version 1.02, 
reproduced in the file covered by the Aladdin Free Public License, 
reproduced in the file /LICENSE.gpl. are subject to the GNU GPL, 
REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, 
required to allow example, if a third party patent license is 
REQUIREMENTS 3. 
requires any Contributor to pay claims and warranties, and if a court 
Reserved. 
reserved. expressly granted under this Agreement are 
respect to a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or 
respect to end users, business partners and the responsibilities with 
responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the 
responsibility claims and warranties are such Commercial Distributor's 
responsibility granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole 
responsibility Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's 
responsible for compliance Recipient agrees that Recipient alone is 
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and 
result, the Commercial Distributor must pay those any damages as a 
resulting litigation. its rights to a jury trial in any 
revisions) of this LUCENT may publish new versions (including 
revoked. it may not thereafter be 
right is granted to create derivative works of or 1. No 
right to modify this version. No one other than LUCENT has the 
RIGHTS 2. GRANT OF 
rights any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property 
Rights Copyright (C) 2003, Lucent Technologies Inc. and others. All 
rights and licenses or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the 
RIGHTS GRANTED DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY 
rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such 
rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright copyright 
rights in the Program not implication, estoppel or otherwise. All 
rights needed, if any. For to secure any other intellectual property 
rights of any other entity. Each patent or other intellectual property 
rights or licenses to the intellectual property Recipient receives no 
rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation. its 
rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to exercise of 
rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it All Recipient's 
rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use 
risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable the 
risks associated with its distributing the Program and assumes all 
royalty-free copyright grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, 
royalty-free patent grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, 
sale of its Contribution which are necessarily infringed by the use or 
Sans Sans Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida 
Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans Italic, Lucida 
Sans Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida Typewriter, Lucida Sans 
Sans Unicode, Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and printer fonts (Lucida 
screen imprinter fonts identified in subdirectory the 
se is (ii) Contributions of other Contributors. No hardware per 
Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such rights granted under 
Section 3C, to characterization of the changes and/or accordance with 
section do not apply to any claims or Losses obligations in this 
section, the Commercial Distributor would have to alone. Under this 
Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Agreement. Except as expressly stated in 
secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For to 
sell, license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to 
sell, offer to sell, license under Licensed Patents to make, use, 
settlement Commercial Distributor in, the defense and any related 
shall also apply to the combination of the by a Contributor 
shall be reformed to the action by the parties hereto, such provision 
shall continue and granted by Recipient relating to the Program 
SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, ANY CONTRIBUTORS 
shall not affect the validity or enforceability of applicable law, it 
shall not apply Patents. The patent license granted by a Contributor 
shall terminate as Contributor to such Recipient under this Agreement 
shall terminate as of the date such rights granted under Section 2(b) 
shall terminate if it All Recipient's rights under this Agreement 
should do so in a manner which does not commercial product offering 
so in a manner which does not commercial product offering should do 
software "Original Program" means the original version of the 
software (including a cross-claim or respect to a patent applicable to 
software is provided under the terms of the The Plan 9 
software may accept certain Commercial distributors of 
software or itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other 
sole responsibility granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes 
solely OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is 
soon as reasonably practicable. and distribution of the Program as 
source accompanying this Agreement as released by LUCENT, including 
source code and Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in 
source code and object code form. The patent license granted any, in 
source code or other tangible b. if the Program is distributed in 
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, 
special, incidental and for damages, including direct, indirect, 
State of New York and This Agreement is governed by the laws of the 
stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Agreement. Except as expressly 
States export administration regulations (and the with the United 
States of America. No the intellectual property laws of the United 
states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are iii. 
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
subdirectory the screen imprinter fonts identified in 
subdirectory /sys/lib/ghostscript/font 2. The printer fonts identified in 
subdirectory /sys/lib/postscript/font. Typewriter83), identified in 
subdirectory /sys/src/cmd/gs is 3. The ghostscript program in the 
subject to the GNU GPL, reproduced in the file /LICENSE.gpl. are 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby a. 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby b. 
subject to the version of the Contributions) may always be distributed 
sublicense the Contribution of such publicly perform, distribute and 
subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution. 
such c. if distributed under Distributor's own license agreement, 
such negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any 
such Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on 
such publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of 
such rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date 
such addition of the Contribution is added by the Contributor, 
such as lost profits; and consequential damages, 
such changes and/or additions to the Program were added to the where 
such claim, and b) notify the Commercial Distributor in writing of 
such combination to be covered by the Licensed Contribution causes 
such Commercial Distributor in connection with its or omissions of 
such Commercial Distributor's responsibility claims and warranties are 
such Contributor, if import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of 
such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Program by 
SUCH DAMAGES. HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
such derivative works, in source code and Contributor, if any, and 
such Distributor ("Commercial Distributor") hereby agrees to defend 
such failure in a reasonable period of Agreement and does not cure 
such litigation is filed. In addition, if Recipient of the date 
such noncompliance. If all Recipient's time after becoming aware of 
such provision shall be reformed to the action by the parties hereto, 
such provision valid and enforceable. minimum extent necessary to make 
such Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as Contributor to 
such Recipient's hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then 
such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's hardware) infringes 
sufficient d. Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has 
survive. 
/sys/lib/ghostscript/font 2. The printer fonts identified in subdirectory 
/sys/lib/postscript/font. Typewriter83), identified in subdirectory 
/sys/src/cmd/gs is 3. The ghostscript program in the subdirectory 
System) to redistribute (other than with the Plan 9 Operating 
tangible b. if the Program is distributed in source code or other 
Technologies Inc. and others. All Rights Copyright (C) 2003, Lucent 
Technologies Inc. ("LUCENT"), the Original a. in the case of Lucent 
terminate as Contributor to such Recipient under this Agreement shall 
terminate as of the date such rights granted under Section 2(b) shall 
terminate if it All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall 
terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use rights under this Agreement 
terms and conditions of this Agreement; a. it complies with the 
terms of the The Plan 9 software is provided under the 
terms of this Agreement, and without further the remainder of the 
terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby a. Subject to the 
terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby b. Subject to the 
TERMS OF THIS PUBLIC THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE 
terms or conditions of this fails to comply with any of the material 
than LUCENT has the right to modify this version. No one other 
than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives more 
than with the Plan 9 Operating System) to redistribute (other 
that counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by 
that: this Agreement or under its own license agreement, provided 
that although each Contributor grants the c. Recipient understands 
that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are iii. states 
that Commercial Distributor then makes performance Distributor. If 
that Contributor alone and not by any other party. offered by 
that Contributor and the Program if, at the time the Contribution of 
that distributes the Program, "Distributor" means a Recipient 
That Distributor is then a Commercial product offering, Product X. 
that has Contributed a "Contributor" means LUCENT and any other entity 
that license before distributing the Program. to acquire 
that reasonably allows originator of its Contribution in a manner 
that Recipient alone is responsible for compliance Recipient agrees 
that the additions and/or changes Also, each Contributor must agree 
that the Program cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging 
that the Program does not infringe the provided by any Contributor 
that to its knowledge it has sufficient d. Each Contributor represents 
THEORY OF WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY 
thereafter be revoked. it may not 
Therefore, if a create potential liability for Contributors. 
thereof 
thereof. modifications to the Program, or any part 
These directories contain material copyrights by B&H Inc. and Y&Y Inc. 
third party claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a 
third party patent license is required to allow example, if a 
those any damages as a result, the Commercial Distributor must pay 
those performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, 
those performance defend claims against the Contributors related to 
time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's 
time. Each new version of the Agreement will be Agreement from time to 
time the Contribution of that Contributor and the Program if, at the 
time to time. Each new version of the Agreement will be Agreement from 
title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of 
TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF 
TORT (INCLUDING LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR 
transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if import and otherwise 
tree with Other, less notable exceptions are marked in the file 
trial in any resulting litigation. its rights to a jury 
Typewriter, Lucida Sans Sans Italic, Lucida Sans Demibold, Lucida 
Typewriter83), identified in subdirectory /sys/lib/postscript/font. 
unavailability or interruption of operations. 
under A. Distributor may choose to distribute the Program in any form 
under If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable 
under Distributor's own license agreement, such c. if distributed 
under its own license agreement, provided that: this Agreement or 
under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, license 
under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such rights granted 
under the new distribute the Program (including its Contributions) 
under the terms of the The Plan 9 software is provided 
UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS PUBLIC THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED 
under this "Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program 
under this Agreement party to this Agreement will bring a legal action 
under this Agreement and any licenses However, Recipient's obligations 
under this Agreement are reserved. expressly granted 
under this Agreement, including but not limited to exercise of rights 
under this Agreement shall terminate as Contributor to such Recipient 
under this Agreement shall terminate if it All Recipient's rights 
under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use rights 
under this Agreement, whether expressly, by of any Contributor 
Under this section, the Commercial Distributor would have to alone. 
under which it was received. In addition, after a new Agreement 
understands that although each Contributor grants the c. Recipient 
unenforceable under If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or 
Unicode, Lucida /lib/font/bit/lucida and printer fonts (Lucida Sans 
United States export administration regulations (and the with the 
United States of America. No the intellectual property laws of the 
USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY 
use, sell, offer to sell, license under Licensed Patents to make, 
users, business partners and the responsibilities with respect to end 
using and responsible for determining the appropriateness of 
valid and enforceable. minimum extent necessary to make such provision 
validity or enforceability of applicable law, it shall not affect the 
Version 1.02 Lucent Public License 
Version 1.02, reproduced below, Lucent Public License, 
version. No one other than LUCENT has the right to modify this 
version number. The Program (including given a distinguishing 
version of the Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the 
version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to 
version of the Agreement will be Agreement from time to time. Each new 
version of the software "Original Program" means the original 
versions (including revisions) of this LUCENT may publish new 
waives more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party 
warranties i. effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all 
warranties, and if a court requires any Contributor to pay claims and 
warranties are such Commercial Distributor's responsibility claims and 
warranties or and conditions, express and implied, including 
warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY 
warranties related to Product X, those performance claims, or offers 
WARRANTY 5. NO 
were added to the where such changes and/or additions to the Program 
when combined with the Program. alone or 
where such changes and/or additions to the Program were added to the 
whether expressly, by of any Contributor under this Agreement, 
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING LIABILITY, 
which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution 
which differ from this Agreement are iii. states that any provisions 
which does not commercial product offering should do so in a manner 
which include the Contribution, nor to to (i) any other combinations 
which it was received. In addition, after a new Agreement under 
While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use like. 
who includes the Program in a of the Program, the Distributor 
who receives the Program under this "Recipient" means anyone 
will be Agreement from time to time. Each new version of the Agreement 
will bring a legal action under this Agreement party to this Agreement 
without further the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and 
WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, 
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY PROVIDED ON AN"AS IS" BASIS, 
works, in source code and Contributor, if any, and such derivative 
works of or 1. No right is granted to create derivative 
works of, publicly display, license to reproduce, prepare derivative 
worldwide, royalty-free copyright grants Recipient a non-exclusive, 
worldwide, royalty-free patent grants Recipient a non-exclusive, 
would have to alone. Under this section, the Commercial Distributor 
writing of such claim, and b) notify the Commercial Distributor in 
X. That Distributor is then a Commercial product offering, Product 
X, those performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product 
year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives more than one 
York and This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New 
Y&Y Inc. These directories contain material copyrights by B&H Inc. and 
